---
title: Pancakes
date: '2018-07-17 23:00:00'
image: pancake_.jpg
tags: grill breakfast vanlife camping
categories: food
layout: post
---

We eat a lot of pancakes. Our grill has a griddle top and pancakes are one of the few ways to get full quickly with our grill (we'll tell you more about baking in the grill sometime soon).

In fact, while I was in the US for Annual Conference, I think Phillip ate pancakes every day!

It's easy to do because I mix the dry ingredients by the gallon and when it's time to eat we can quickly add egg, milk and blueberries and get cooking.

We eat them like this:

* 1 egg
* 1 cup of milk (or kefir, our homemade yogurt)
* 1 cup of mix
* 1/2 cup of blueberries (we buy them frozen)

We alter this if we have some milk to use up or want them thinner to cook faster or something. This amount feeds Phillip alone or both of us if we each have an egg or fruit or something on the side.

The mix is something like this:
* 4 parts whole wheat flour
* 2 parts white flour
* 1 part oats (minimally grinding them in a blender, food processor or coffee grinder helps them blend in better)
* 1 part nuts - also ground or our non-electric method is to put them in a plastic bag and "roll" them with a jar (our rolling pin)
* up to 1 part cornmeal
* up to 1 part buckwheat flour or any other flour you like
* as much cinnamon as you feel like
* baking powder - about 1 T per 1 cup of mix

Pancakes usually have fat in them but we just add butter and maple syrup when we eat them. Sometimes we use a little coconut oil on the griddle for the first set, but don't need it after that.